Best Knee & Joint Replacement Surgery in Panchkula, India Home Our Hospitals Alchemist Hospital 21 Ojas Hospital About Us Facilities Accommodation Emergency Care Corporate Services General Services Empanelled Institutions Empanelled TPAs Patient Services Patient Guide Visitor Policy Patient's Rights Specialities Consultants Careers Contact Us Maps & Directions Online Inquiry Feedback Blogs Home Our Hospitals Alchemist Hospital 21 Ojas Hospital About Us Facilities Accommodation Emergency Care Corporate Services General Services Empanelled Institutions Empanelled TPAs Patient Services Patient Guide Visitor Policy Patient's Rights Specialities Consultants Careers Contact Us Maps & Directions Online Inquiry Feedback Blogs Department of Orthopaedics & Joint Replacement SPECIALISTS Dr. Dalvir Singh Chauhan Associate Director , Orthopedics & Joint Replacement Dr. Sandeep Kumar Jindal Sr. Consultant, Orthopaedics & Joint Replacement We at Alchemist Hospital, Panchkula are dedicated to providing the best possible care for people of all ages. You can be assured that the care you receive at Orthopaedic Centre is the most advanced than any place you could find elsewhere in the nation. Among other things, our state-of-the-art facility includes a laboratory, MRI scan, CT Scan & dedicated Physiotherapy unit. Speciality Care Provided includes: 1. Total Joint Replacement Surgery (a) Total Knee Replacement / Knee Resurfacing Total Knee replacement or knee arthroplasty is a surgical procedure to replace the weight-bearing surfaces of the knee joint to relieve pain and disability. It is most commonly performed for osteoarthritis and also for other knee diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis. In general, the surgery consists of replacing the diseased or damaged joint surfaces of the knee with metal and highly crosslinked polyethylene components shaped to allow continued motion of the knee. The patient can walk from the next day of surgery. (b) Unicondylar Knee Replacement/Bone Preserving Surgery In patients with involvement of only one compartment of the knee, only the disease bone is resurfaced with a metallic cap. The patient's orginal ligaments and bone are preserved and the knee is not dislocated during surgery. This is the most advanced knee surgery in properly indicated patients it preserves the full range of knee motion and normal kinematics of the knee. This surgery has a minimal rehabilitation program. (c) Total Hip Replacement Conventional Total Hip Replacement (THR) is a very successful procedure for the treatment of arthritis of the hip, a condition causing considerable pain and loss of movement. The hip is a ball and socket joint, which allows the upper leg to move from side to side, back to front, and to rotate. The joint is made up of the head of the femur (the ball), which fits into the acetabulum (the socket). In the healthy hip, both the head of the femur and the acetabulum are covered with cartilage, a smooth surface that allows the joint to move freely. Hip replacement is a surgical procedure in which the hip joint is replaced by a prosthetic implant. Total hip replacement surgery replaces the upper end of the thighbone (femur) with a metal ball and resurfaces the hip socket in the pelvic bone with a metal shell and plastic liner. Doctors may attach replacement joints to the bones with or without cement. (d) Revision Knee Replacement (e) Revision Hip Replacement (f) Revision Total Knee Replacement (g) Infected Total Knee Replacement (h) Two-Stage Revision Knee Arthroplasty 2. Traumatology/Surgery for Bone Fractures " Minimal access surgery " the name itself is self-explanatory; it means exploring and managing the bony and soft tissue pathologies using minimal incision. The advantages of doing so are to minimize both the size of surgical incisions as well as the trauma to surrounding soft tissues while accomplishing the same surgical goals. 3. Sports medicine which includes: (a) Knee Arthroscopy & Reconstruction (b) Shoulder Arthroscopy & Reconstruction (c) Foot & Ankle reconstruction (d) Hand Surgery 4. Deformity Correction Surgeries (a) Correction of deformed bones with Ilizarov technique (b) Correction of spinal deformities like scoliosis and kyphosis 5. Bone Tumour Surgery 6. Treatment of old Infection Ilizarov technique Alchemist Hospital, Sector 21, Panchkula, Haryana India. Contact No: 0172-4500000 Services Our Facilities Corporate Services Patient Services Annual BMW Report About Us Specialities Consultant Profile News & Events Lives Touched Contact Us Maps & Directions Online Enquiry Feedback Career For Sample collection: Call: +91 97808 87025 | For Ambulance: Call: +91 97808 87055 © Copyright 2005-26 | Privacy Policy | All Rights Reserved | Alchemist Hospitals Book an Appointment WhatsApp
